Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. It is a set of instructions given to a computer to produce various outputs.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Editor: where you can write your codes
Compiler: that takes the source codes and converts into bytecode for the machine to understand.
JVM(java virtual machine): it translates the bytecodes and executes the program in the operating system.

What is IDE?
Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, Andriod Studio, BlueJ

Explain the entire java life cycle.
The source is written in and editor which is compiled by the compiler and changed into bytecodes so that the java virtual machine can
read it and execute it in the operating system.

what is class?
Class is the blueprint of all objects.

What is object?
It is the instance of the class.

What is the entry point of an application?
It is where control is transferred from the operating system to a computer program so that execution can take place.

Why main is static?
It is static so that the JCM can call it without creating any instance of a class which contains the main method.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
java.lang.object is superclass of all classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
path vaiable is used to set the path for all Java executing tools.
classpath variable is used to set the path for java classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
You can only declare a method in Interface class.
You can declare and define a method in Abstract class.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
You cannot make an Object form an Interface and Abstract class. You can extend or implement these classes to use it.

what is Access Specifier?
Access Specifier is a keyword that defines who gets access to classes and methods.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP: object oriented programming
Abstraction:implementation hiding
Encapsulation:data hiding
Inheritance: it allows you to create classes from other classes.
Polymorphism: it is the ability of an object to take on many forms.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Package is a mechanism to divide Java code into similar groups of classes.
java.lang package

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Application Programming Interface

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Multiple inheritance is not supported in java because it causes confusion.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Overloading happens when method have the same name but different numbers of parameters or different type of parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exception is an event that happens during the execution of a program that disrupts the flow.
You can introduce a try catch block or finally in the code.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Static keyword ensures that the variable and functions belongs to the class and not the objects.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final means that the variable cannot be changed and the method cannot be over-ridden.
What is final, finally and finalize?
Final classes cannot be inherited, final variable cannot be changed, and final methods can't be overridden.
Finally is used to place important code which will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
Its a block of code that's called when an instance of an object is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A default constructor is created with no parameters.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
this keyword referes to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
super keyword refers to the parent class.
You can use super with variables, methods, and constructors.

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
JVM is platform dependent.

What version of java are you using?
10.0.2

What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is an environment to develop and execute java program.
JVM is an interpreter that executes java program line by line.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JVM is an interpreter that executes java program line by line.
JRE is an installation packages which provides environment to only run java program.

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time is when source code is converted into bytecode(machine language).
When an application is running it is called runtime.

What is heap?
Heap is dynamic memory allocation.

How java manage it's memory?
Java objects are located in the heap. Heap is created when JVM starts up and changes size when the application runs. When the heap is
full, garbage collectors will clear unwanted objects making space for new objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is a sequence of characters that cannot be changed.
StringBuffer represents characters that can be changed.
StringBuiler also represents characters that can be changed.

What is Singleton class?
It allows for only one object of a class at one time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization converts state of an object into byte stream while deserialization conveerts byte stream to java object.

when to use transient variable in java?
If you do not want the object to be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
While loop checks the condition first before execution.
do.while loop checks the condition after execution, so will be executed at least once.

What is Enum?
collection of constants.

What is Iterator?
Iterators allows us to retrieve elements one by one from a collection.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
interger

Why is String Immutable in Java?
for security reasons.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
calling one constructor from another constructor

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Serial: garbage collects with a single thread.
Parallel: garbage collects with multiple threads.
What is JIT stands for?
Just in Time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
java jeap space is an error when available heap space is exhausted.
when heap is full garbage collection gets rid of unused objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
It is not guaranteed.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Stack is used to store local variables and functions
Heap is used to store objects

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection allows to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods in runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
it is executing multiple sub-processes(small units).

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
It is making sure only one thread can access the resource at a given point in time.

What is Framework?
Framework are pre-written codes in Java to which you add your own code to solve a problem for specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
JUnit,Selenium, Rest Assured, TestNG, Mockito, Spock,Cucumber

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
testNG is similar to junit but has more functionalities making it more powerful.

What are the dependencies for this project?
mongoDB, mySql, testNg
what is dependency injection in java?
A dependency injection is where a static object provides the dependencies for other objects.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding occurs during compile time.
Dynamic biding occurs during runtime.









